.\" man page for Ash (Alpha shell)
.TH ASH "1" "September 2017" "Ash 2.0" "Shell Manual"
.SH NAME \"--------------------------------------
Ash \- Alpha shell.
.SH SYNOPSIS \"--------------------------------------
sample grammer: cmd [arg]* [| cmd [arg]*]*
.SH DESCRIPTION \"--------------------------------------
Ash is a bash-like shell.


.SH GRAMMAR \"--------------------------------------
<identifier> ::= any sequence of characters from the foll99ing character class:
.br
	[-_/.a-zA-Z0-9]

<cmd> ::= <identifier>
.br

<arg> ::= <identifier>
.br

<arg_list> ::= <arg_list> <arg>
.br
	| 
.br
	
<simple_command> ::= <cmd> <arg_list>
.br

<simple_command_list> ::= <simple_command_list> '|' <simple_command>
.br
	| <simple_command>
.br

<redirection> ::= '<' <identifier>
.br
	| '>' <identifier>
.br
	| '2' '>' <identifier>
.br

<redirection_list> ::= <redirection_list> <redirection>
.br
	| 
.br

<background> ::= '&'
.br
	| 
.br

<pipeline_terminator> ::= '\\n'
.br
	| ';'
.br
	| ';' '\\n'
.br

<pipeline> ::= <simple_command_list> <redirection_list> <background> <pipeline_terminator>
.br
	| <pipeline_terminator>
.br

<pipeline_list> ::= <pipeline_list> <pipeline>
.br
	| <pipeline>
.SH BUILTINS \"--------------------------------------
The following are the shell builtins:
.br
(1) cd - Change the shell's current working directory.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        cd <path-to-new-directory> or cd h
.br
    Execute "cd h" for more details.
.br
(2) exit - Exit from the shell.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        exit or exit h
.br
    Execute "exit h" for more details.
.br
(3) jobs - List the jobs in the shell's active job list.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        jobs or jobs h
.br
    Execute "jobs h" for more details.
.br
(4) fg - Continue an active job in the foreground.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        fg <job-ID> or fg h
.br
    Execute "fg h" for more details.
.br
(5) bg - Continue one or more active job(s) in the background.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        bg -<job-ID> ... or bg h
.br
    Execute "bg h" for more details.
.br
(6) kill - Sends a signal to one or more active job(s). 
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        kill l, kill s<signal-name> -<job-ID> ...,
.br
        kill n<signal-number> -<job-ID> ... , or kill h       
.br
    Execute "kill h" for more details.
.br
(7) killall - Sends a signal to all active jobs of the shell.
.br
    Expected grammar:
.br
        killall l, killall s<signal-name> ,
.br
        killall n<signal-number> , or killall h        
.br
    Execute "killall h" for more details.
.br

.SH FILES \"--------------------------------------
The following directories are stored in the ~/.Ash directory: 
.br
(1) b-hlep -- contains documentation files for shell builtins 
.br
(2) config -- contains the follo99ing files:
.br
    history - contains the command history of the shell.
.br
    inputrc - contains configuration for readline
.br    
.SH EXAMPLES \"--------------------------------------
ls -a -l | wc -l 
.br 
ls -a -l > <file> 
.br
cd <file-path>; ls -al

.SH SEE ALSO \"--------------------------------------
bash(1), zsh(1)
.SH LISCENCE
-
.SH AUTHOR \"--------------------------------------
.TP 
Joe Nathan Abellard (github.com/joenatech7)
